README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/code-troopers/ct.svg?branch=feat%2Frust)](https://travis-ci.org/code-troopers/ct)

# CT : CLI Helper tool

This tool is a simple wrapper allowing to :

 * have aliases per project, aliases that can be called from whenever the project structure.
 * spawn a web GUI to get listening ports on your machine (http://localhost:1500)

# Setup
No prerequisites are required except `lsof` if you want to use port listing feature.

Manual install
---
Get the latest release of ct on the release page : https://github.com/code-troopers/ct/releases/latest for your  : 
 
 * apple-darwin for MacOS hosts
 * pc-windows-gnu for Windows hosts
 * unknown-linux-gnu for Linux hosts (or Linux For Windows) 
 * unknown-linux-musl for Linux hosts without glibc (typically alpine)
 
Untar it and place `ct` file in your PATH (`/usr/local/bin` is a good candidate).

Easy install
---

## Mac OS
 
`brew install code-troopers/homebrew-tap/ct`

## Linux



# Port list usage
Simply run the command `ct ports` to get the list of listening ports on your machine at http://localhost:1500.
You will need a working internet connection to retreive the CSS/JS from the CDN to use it.
But you can easily imagine other frontends calling the URI http://localhost:1500/scan which returns JSON.

![Port list example](images/listen.png)

# Aliaser feature usage


Configure a project
--
Create a `.ctproject` file at the root of your project structure, this file will contain the aliases you want to set for your current project.
It have to look like the following :

    # comments are ignored
    run='mvn clean install jetty:run'
    dbg='mvnDebug clean install jetty:run'
    test='mvn test'
    
To init a project you can simply issue a `ct --init` in the folder where you want to create a new `.ctproject` file.

Use it
--
Simply call `ct` followed by your alias to launch the command in your current directory. If you execute the command without specifying a command, help screen with the available commands will be printed.

Protip
--
Use consistent aliases in your `.ctproject` files, this way, you can define global aliases for your shell that will allow you to use consistent shortcut regardless of the project type you're on.

For example, you can add an alias `alias run="./gradlew run"` and in each project define such a command. In your shell, a `run` will launch your project, no matter if the underlying task is a Maven or a Grunt one.

# Man usage

`ct` can extract content from README.md to provide a pseudo man-page for your project.

You can use this feature by issuing `ct man` to view the README.md, 
you can target a specific topic with `ct man <TOPIC>` and list available topics with `ct man --help` (or `ct man -h`). 

License
--

    ````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````````````````-/ossyyyyyyyso+:.``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ``````````````-sddddddddddddddddddh+.```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````````.sdddo///////////////yddd+``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ```````````.hdddd-               +ddddo```````````````     Code-Troopers CLI helper    `````````````
    ```````````sdds..                `..ddd/``````````````         Copyright  2014         `````````````
    ``````````:dhho                     yhdh.`````````````          Code-Troopers          `````````````
    ``````````yd                          :d+`````````````     http://code-troopers.com    `````````````
    `````````:dd  -yhyyyyyyh` -yyyyyyyyy  :dd.``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````````ydd  -dddddy///  .///dddddd  :dd+``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````-ddd  -dddddo         dddddd  :ddh``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````/ddd  `.....`         ......  :ddd.`````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````ohhy                          :hhh:`````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ```````+o                                 h:````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````.ydo               yh+               hd+```````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````sddo      `````````yho`````````      hdd/``````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````sddo     -ddddddddd` :ddddddddd      hdd/``````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````.ydo     `.........  `.........      hd+```````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ```````/o...                          `...s-````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````.ydd                          :ddo``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````````-dd            sy+           :dh```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ``````````/d````````````dds```````````/h-```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ```````````.ohdddddddddddddddddddddddy+.````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ``````````````.://++//:-``.-://++//-.```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````


Copyright 2014 Code-Troopers.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this work except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License in the LICENSE file, or at:

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

Commit message:

feat(39): allow to open uri from aliases
Since the use case is opening uri, made it possible to open uri in a cross platform way (getting rid of the `open` keyword).
Fixes #39

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/code-troopers/ct.svg?branch=feat%2Frust)](https://travis-ci.org/code-troopers/ct)

# CT : CLI Helper tool

This tool is a simple wrapper allowing to :

 * have aliases per project, aliases that can be called from whenever the project structure.
 * spawn a web GUI to get listening ports on your machine (http://localhost:1500)

# Setup
No prerequisites are required except `lsof` if you want to use port listing feature.

Manual install
---
Get the latest release of ct on the release page : https://github.com/code-troopers/ct/releases/latest for your  : 
 
 * apple-darwin for MacOS hosts
 * pc-windows-gnu for Windows hosts
 * unknown-linux-gnu for Linux hosts (or Linux For Windows) 
 * unknown-linux-musl for Linux hosts without glibc (typically alpine)
 
Untar it and place `ct` file in your PATH (`/usr/local/bin` is a good candidate).

Easy install
---

## Mac OS
 
`brew install code-troopers/homebrew-tap/ct`

## Linux



# Port list usage
Simply run the command `ct ports` to get the list of listening ports on your machine at http://localhost:1500.
You will need a working internet connection to retreive the CSS/JS from the CDN to use it.
But you can easily imagine other frontends calling the URI http://localhost:1500/scan which returns JSON.

![Port list example](images/listen.png)

# Aliaser feature usage


Configure a project
--
Create a `.ctproject` file at the root of your project structure, this file will contain the aliases you want to set for your current project.
It have to look like the following :

    # comments are ignored
    run='mvn clean install jetty:run'
    dbg='mvnDebug clean install jetty:run'
    test='mvn test'
    
To init a project you can simply issue a `ct --init` in the folder where you want to create a new `.ctproject` file.

Use it
--
Simply call `ct` followed by your alias to launch the command in your current directory. If you execute the command without specifying a command, help screen with the available commands will be printed.

Alias URIs
--
You can alias URIs straight away in your `.ctproject` to allow users to open it right away (for example a swagger entrypoint).

    swagger="http://localhost:9000/swagger-ui/index.html" #opens swagger ui
    target="file:///data" # open /data in your file explorer


Protip
--
Use consistent aliases in your `.ctproject` files, this way, you can define global aliases for your shell that will allow you to use consistent shortcut regardless of the project type you're on.

For example, you can add an alias `alias run="./gradlew run"` and in each project define such a command. In your shell, a `run` will launch your project, no matter if the underlying task is a Maven or a Grunt one.

# Man usage

`ct` can extract content from README.md to provide a pseudo man-page for your project.

You can use this feature by issuing `ct man` to view the README.md, 
you can target a specific topic with `ct man <TOPIC>` and list available topics with `ct man --help` (or `ct man -h`). 

License
--

    ````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````````````````-/ossyyyyyyyso+:.``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ``````````````-sddddddddddddddddddh+.```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````````.sdddo///////////////yddd+``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ```````````.hdddd-               +ddddo```````````````     Code-Troopers CLI helper    `````````````
    ```````````sdds..                `..ddd/``````````````         Copyright  2014         `````````````
    ``````````:dhho                     yhdh.`````````````          Code-Troopers          `````````````
    ``````````yd                          :d+`````````````     http://code-troopers.com    `````````````
    `````````:dd  -yhyyyyyyh` -yyyyyyyyy  :dd.``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````````ydd  -dddddy///  .///dddddd  :dd+``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````-ddd  -dddddo         dddddd  :ddh``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````/ddd  `.....`         ......  :ddd.`````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````ohhy                          :hhh:`````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ```````+o                                 h:````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````.ydo               yh+               hd+```````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````sddo      `````````yho`````````      hdd/``````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````sddo     -ddddddddd` :ddddddddd      hdd/``````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````.ydo     `.........  `.........      hd+```````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ```````/o...                          `...s-````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````.ydd                          :ddo``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    `````````-dd            sy+           :dh```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ``````````/d````````````dds```````````/h-```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ```````````.ohdddddddddddddddddddddddy+.````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ``````````````.://++//:-``.-://++//-.```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````
    ````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````


Copyright 2014 Code-Troopers.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this work except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License in the LICENSE file, or at:

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
